# Containers and Development Operations: Part 1, Local Development Workflows <!-- omit in toc -->

> Estimated Completion Time: 5-10 Hours
>
> Due Date: You should have an understanding of these concepts by next class.

## Learning Objective <!-- omit in toc -->

To garner a deeper understanding of container-based development, the services required to effectively offer a container based web application\service, and to sharpen your basic systems administration skills.

In this lab you will:

- Tweak, build, and deploy a web application.
- Setup a proxy between Docker and Kubernetes
- Setup and use a local image registry


## Lab Research: Readings and Videos

- [An Introduction to Continuous Integration, Delivery, and Deployment](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/an-introduction-to-continuous-integration-delivery-and-deployment)
- [Local Docker Containers How-To's](#local-docker-containers-how-tos)

### Prepare our environment

Since you already have it installed, and it will make life easier for this lab, we'll use the Ubuntu Desktop GUI and Browser to view our progress throughout.

- Lets disable the Ubuntu Firewall
  - `sudo ufw disable`
- How much RAM and CPU have been allocated to minikube?
  - Start minikube and increase resouruces to 8gb RAM and 2 CPUs
  - Start the minikube dashboard
    - Access it in the broswer: `http://localhost:8001/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kubernetes-dashboard:/proxy/`
  - Enable the minikube addons `Heapster` and `Ingress`.
  - Install Docker
    - Start the docker service  

### Let's start building our pipeline!

- Ensure Git is installed
  -  "`git --version`" to check.
- Create a GitHub account if you don't already have one.
  - Fork my [forked repository](https://github.com/dirtyredbeard/kubernetes-ci-cd)
  - Clone your new repository into your Ubuntu VM
- From your cloned repository use kubectl to apply the registry.yaml file located in the manifests directory.
- Check the rollout status of your registry deployment.
- Run "`minikube service registry-ui --url`" then navigate to view your empty registry!!!

### Tweak and build our first image!

- Edit the "`applications/hello-kenzan/index.html`" file
  - Tweak some of the HTML, just so you know your changes are what we intend to see when we build this image.
  - Use the "`applications/hello-kenzan/Dockerfile`" dockerfile to build our hello-kenzan application in our local registry.
    - Pick an open port!

> docker build -t 127.0.0.1:30400/hello-kenzan:latest -f 
 applications/hello-kenzan/Dockerfile applications/hello-kenzan

### Let's push our updated image to our kubernetes registry

Docker is creating and running images in its own Private network --seperate of our kubernetes cluster.

#### Temporary Proxy

- We have to setup a docker container that listens on the same port we just specified.
  - This is pre-configured in the applications/socat directory in our repository.
  - Build that docker image.
  - Run the image

> docker run -d -e "REG_IP=`minikube ip`" -e "REG_PORT=30400" --name socat-registry -p 30400:5000 socat-registry

### Push your Docker application image

- Push your hello-kenzan image to the registry
- Refresh your registry page!
- When it is there, you can shutdown the docker proxy.
  - "`docker stop socat-registry`"

### Apply and deploy!

- Apply our config file
  - found here: `applications/hello-kenzan/k8s/manual-deployment.yaml`
  - find the url:port your hello-kenzan app is running on and see your work!

Congrat you've completed your first iterative change and deployed it!

## Questions

Come to class able to describe what each configuration file does and be able to walk us through the whole process.