# Containers and Development Operations: Part 1, Local Development Workflows <!-- omit in toc -->

> Estimated Completion Time: 5-10 Hours
>
> Due Date: You should have an understanding of these concepts by next class.

## Learning Objective <!-- omit in toc -->

To garner a deeper understanding of container-based multi-tier application development, the services required to effectively offer a container based web applications\services, and to sharpen your basic systems administration skills.

In this lab you will:

- Install and initialize Helm\Tiller
- Add an external helm repository to a kubernetes instance
- Deploy a web application with Helm
- Scale a web application with Helm

## Lab Pre-Reads

- [Introduction to Helm](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/an-introduction-to-helm-the-package-manager-for-kubernetes)
- [Why Helm Matters](https://platform9.com/blog/kubernetes-helm-why-it-matters/)

## Prepare your environment

In your UbuntuVM. Lets start fresh; stop any docker containers and reset minikube.

- [ ] Run: `sudo docker stop $(sudo docker ps -a -q)`
- [ ] Run: `minikube delete`
- [ ] Run: `minikube start`
  - [ ] Verify kubernetes is configured properly `kubectl version`

### Deploy a Web Application with Helm

- [ ] Install Helm
  - [ ] Initialize Helm
    - [ ] Run `helm --help` to learn more and verify helm is installed correctly
    - [ ] Run `kubectl get pods -n kube-system` to see that a Tiller container is now deployed.
- [ ] Use Helm to add the bitnami charts repository.
  - [ ] [Bitnami's Github Page](https://github.com/bitnami/charts)
    - [ ] Use helm to search for charts with `bitnami` in the name.
- [ ] Use Helm to install the bitnami/mean chart.
  - [ ] Name the deployment my-app.
  - [ ] Set the service type to NodePort.
  - [ ] Use `helm status my-app` to check on the deployment.
    - [ ] Continue on once the 'my-app-mean' and my-app-mongodb' deployments are ready.
- [ ] Set the portforwarding rule found in the notes of `helm status my-app`
- [ ] In your browser you should now be able to go to `localhost` and see your application running!

### Scale our web application with Helm

- [ ] Get the status of your help deployment
  - [ ] Notice the number of instances of your service currently ready, up-to-date, and available (1 instance of each service)
- [ ] Scale your web application to 3 instances of the NodeJS server
  - [ ] `kubectl scale --replicas 3 deployment/my-app-mean`
  - [ ] Quickly Run `helm status my-app` several times to watch you app automatically scale!!
  - [ ] Scale down to 2 replicas.

That was a crash course in Helm!

## Deliverables

Come to class able to describe the web application you deployed, and ready to have a discussion on automated deployments!